[{"title": "小米推出智能手表Mi Watch", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201911/599584.shtml", "en": "Xiaomi, which competes with Apple for the top position in the wearable market, today made the competition a little more interesting. The Chinese electronics giant has launched in its home market its first smartwatch, called the Mi Watch, which looks strikingly similar to the Apple Watch. The Mi Watch, like the Apple Watch, has a square body with a crown and a button. It sports a 1.78-inch AMOLED display (326 ppi) that offers the always-on capability and runs MIUI for Watch, the company's homegrown wearable operating system based on Google's Wear OS. Inside the metal housing — aluminum alloy with a matte finish — are microphones on two sides for recording audio and taking calls, and a loudspeaker on the left to listen to music or incoming calls. The Mi Watch, which comes in one size — 44mm — has a ceramic back, which is where the charging pins and a heart-rate sensor are also placed. The company says its first smartwatch supports cellular connectivity (through an eSIM), Wi-Fi, GPS, Bluetooth and NFC for payments. The Mi Watch should last for 36 hours on a single charge on cellular mode, the company claimed. The Mi Watch also will help users track their sleep, performance while swimming, cycling and running, and also measure their heart rate. More than 40 popular Chinese apps, such as TikTok and QQ Messenger, are available for the Mi Watch on day one. The company's own XiaoAI assistant is the default virtual digital assistant on the watch. The Mi Watch is priced at CNY 1,299 ($185) and will go on sale in the country next week. There's no word on international availability just yet, but if the past is any indication, Xiaomi will likely bring the device to India, Singapore, Indonesia and other markets in coming quarters.", "zh": "和苹果公司竞争可穿戴设备市场头把交椅的小米公司现在的竞争方法更有趣了。 这家中国电子产品巨头公司已在国内市场推出第一款智能手表Mi Watch，外观和Apple Watch特别像。 这款Mi Watch像Apple Watch一样是方形表盘，带有表冠和按钮。宣传亮点是1.78英寸的AMOLED显示屏（326 ppi），提供息屏显示模式和小米系统。小米系统是该公司基于谷歌Wear OS的国产可穿戴操作系统。 在哑光铝合金的金属外壳内部两端都有麦克风，用于录音和接听电话，左侧有一个扬声器，用于听音乐或接听来电。Mi Watch只有44mm一个尺寸，陶瓷后盖上有充电触点和心率传感器。 小米公司称第一款智能手表支持蜂窝网络连接（通过eSIM卡）、Wi-Fi、GPS、蓝牙和NFC支付（移动支付方式）。该公司称Mi Watch在蜂窝模式下充电一次续航时间长达36小时。 Mi Watch也能帮助用户监测睡眠，以及游泳、骑车和跑步时的表现，也可以测心率。 Mi Watch最开始就可以安装40多款中国流行的应用程序，如抖音和QQ。手表上使用了小米公司自己的默认虚拟数字助理“小爱助手”。 Mi Watch定价为1,299元人民币（合185美元），下周将在国内上市销售。还没有在国际上市的消息，但看过去的情况，小米有可能在未来几季度在印度、新加坡、印尼和其他市场开始销售。"}, {"title": "新型神经网络可以用快1亿倍速度解决\"三体问题\"", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201911/599412.shtml", "en": "The three-body problem, one of the most notoriously complex calculations in physics, may have met its match in artificial intelligence: a new neural network promises to find solutions up to 100 million times faster than existing techniques. First formulated by Sir Isaac Newton, the three-body problem involves calculating the movement of three gravitationally interacting bodies – such as the Earth, the Moon, and the Sun, for example – given their initial positions and velocities. It might sound simple at first, but the ensuing chaotic movement has stumped mathematicians and physicists for hundreds of years, to the extent that all but the most dedicated humans have tried to avoid thinking about it as much as possible. That's why chronometer time-keepers became more popular for calculating positions at sea rather than using the Moon and the stars – it was just less of a head-scratcher. Today the three-body problem is an important part of figuring out how black hole binaries might interact with single black holes, and from there how some of the most fundamental objects of the Universe interact with each other. Enter the neural network produced by researchers from the University of Edinburgh and the University of Cambridge in the UK, the University of Aveiro in Portugal, and Leiden University in the Netherlands. The team developed a deep artificial neural network (ANN), trained on a database of existing three-body problems, plus a selection of solutions that have already been painstakingly worked out. The ANN was shown to have a lot of promise for reaching accurate answers much more quickly than we can today. \"A trained ANN can replace existing numerical solvers, enabling fast and scalable simulations of many-body systems to shed light on outstanding phenomena such as the formation of black-hole binary systems or the origin of the core collapse in dense star clusters,\" write the researchers in their paper.", "zh": "三体问题是物理学中最复杂的计算题之一，但它在人工智能领域可能遇到了对手：一种新型神经网络有望以比现有技术快1亿倍的速度找出其解决方案。 三体问题是由艾萨克·牛顿爵士最先提出的，它指的是已知三个物体最初的位置和速度，计算它们在相互之间万有引力作用下的运动规律，例如地球、月球和太阳。 这个问题最初听起来可能很简单，但由此产生的混乱运动已经困扰了数学家和物理学家数百年，以至于除了最专注的人以外，其他人都尽量避免去想这个问题。 这就是为什么在推测海上位置时，比起月亮和星星，天文钟更受欢迎，因为它不那么令人费解。 如今在研究黑洞双星如何与单个黑洞相互作用，以及宇宙中最基本的一些物体如何相互作用的问题上，三体问题是其中的重要组成部分。 这种神经网络是由英国爱丁堡大学、剑桥大学、葡萄牙阿威罗大学和荷兰莱顿大学的研究人员制作的。 该团队开发了一种深度人工神经网络（ANN），它以现有的三体问题数据库和研究人员选出的精心制定的解决方案来进行训练。人工神经网络被证实有望比我们现有的方法更快得出准确的答案。 研究人员在论文中写道：“训练有素的人工神经网络可以取代现有的数值求解器，使快速可扩展的多体模拟系统阐明尚待解决的现象，如黑洞双星系统的形成以及密集星团核心坍缩的起因。”"}, {"title": "14岁女孩发明可替代抗生素的液体绷带", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201911/599335.shtml", "en": "A 14-year-old scientist took home $25,000 from a national science competition for inventing a liquid bandage that could replace antibiotics. Kara Fan from San Diego, CA was won the 3M Young Scientist Challenge in St. Paul, Minnesota. Fan came up with a nano particle liquid bandage that could replace the overuse of antibiotics and potentially reduce the development of superbugs. \"I want to show my invention of the nanosilver liquid bandage to more people. I think it is important for more people to be aware of antibiotic-resistance bacteria crisis and do something about it,\" Fan said. The 3M Young Scientist Challenge is a national competition for middle school students that takes place every year. The students are tasked with coming up with an idea or invention that tackles existing issues. Ten finalists are chosen to compete for the title of \"America's Top Young Scientist\" and a grand prize of $25,000. After being selected, they work with scientists at to make their idea come to life. Each contestant is judged on their invention's creativity, scientific knowledge, persuasiveness and communication, and overall presentation. Other finalists included Jaya Choudray, who invented an airflow control robot that works to reduce energy consumption in a home, and Caroline Crouchley, who invented a climate-friendly transportation system that would eliminate the need for a diesel engine or electric motors. 3M holds the competition for students in grades 5-8 because research has shown that their interest in science fades after these years.", "zh": "一个14岁的科学家发明了一种可替代抗生素的液体绷带，在全国科学竞赛上赢得了25,000美元奖金。 来自加利福尼亚州圣地亚哥的Kara Fan赢得了明尼苏达州圣保罗市的3M青年科学家挑战赛。Fan发明了纳米颗粒液体绷带，能解决抗生素滥用问题，可能会减缓超级细菌的发展。 Fan说：“我想向更多的人展示我发明的纳米银粒子液体绷带，我认为能让更多的人了解耐药菌危机并采取行动是很重要的。” 3M青年科学家挑战赛是一年一度的针对中学生的全国竞赛，参赛学生的任务是提出一个解决现有问题的想法或发明。 10名参加决赛的选手被选出来角逐“美国顶尖青年科学家”的头衔和25,000美元的大奖。决赛选手被选出来之后要和科学家一起将他们的想法付诸实践。 要对每位选手的发明创意、科学知识、说服力和沟通力，以及综合阐述进行评判。 其他决赛选手有Jaya Choudray，发明了一个可以减少家庭能源消耗的气流控制机器人；Caroline Crouchley发明了一种气候友好型交通系统，可以省去对柴油机或电动机的需求。 3M公司举办这场针对5-8年级学生的竞赛是因为研究表明近些年他们对科学的兴趣有所减退。"}, {"title": "特斯拉推出新版太阳能屋顶", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201911/598810.shtml", "en": "Tesla has launched the third iteration of its solar roof tile for residential home use, which it officially detailed in a blog post on Friday and in a call with media. Tesla CEO Elon Musk kicked off the call with some explanatory remarks on the V3 Solar Roof, and then took a number of questions. The company says it'll begin installations in the coming weeks (Musk says some installations have already begun) and that it hopes to ramp production to as many as 1,000 new roofs per week. Tesla's solar roof tiles — which are designed to look just like normal roof tiles when installed on a house, while doubling as solar panels to generate power — are something of a work-in-progress. The company is still tinkering with the product three years after announcing the concept, having done trial installations with two different iterations so far. \"Versions one and two we were still figuring things out,\" said Elon Musk on an earnings call earlier this week, adding that he thinks \"version three is finally ready for the big time\". Tesla's Solar Roof website now includes a pricing estimator, which lists $42,500 as the total price for the average 2,000 square-foot home, with 10kW solar panels. It also lists $33,950 as the price after an $8,550 federal tax incentive. You can also enter your address and get an updated estimate that takes into account local costs and incentives, and add on any Powerwalls (with three as the default for a 2,000 square-foot roof).", "zh": "特斯拉推出了第三代家用太阳能光伏瓦，在周五的一篇博文和与媒体的通话中正式进行了详细说明。 特斯拉首席执行官埃隆·马斯克在通话中就第三代太阳能屋顶进行了解释，然后回答了一些问题。 该公司说未来几周将开始安装（马斯克说一部分已经开始安装），而且希望将产量提高到每周1000顶。 特斯拉的太阳能光伏瓦安装在房顶上看起来就像正常的屋顶瓦片，同时又兼作太阳能电池板来发电，现在仍然是半成品。 该公司提出这一概念的三年后仍然在对该产品进行改进，到目前为止已经试安装了两代产品。 本周早些时候埃隆·马斯克在业绩电话会议上说：“我们还在研究第一代和第二代产品，第三代产品终于可以大展身手了。” 特斯拉的太阳能屋顶官网上现在有价格计算器，普通的2,000平方英尺房子的瓦片总价为42,500美元，带有10千瓦的太阳能电池板，联邦税优惠8,550美元后价格为33,950美元。 你也可以输入地址，获取最新估价，会把当地成本和联邦税优惠考虑在内，还会算上Powerwalls家用电池（2000平方英尺的屋顶默认有三块电池）。"}, {"title": "苹果推出AirPods Pro无线降噪耳机", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201911/598555.shtml", "en": "When Apple first unveiled AirPods in 2016, the wireless earbuds were mocked by some who suggested they looked like electronic toothbrushes dangling from ears. Now the headphones have become one of Apple's most beloved products, and the company is doubling down. On Monday, Apple (AAPL) unveiled a high-end version of its popular AirPods. The new headphones have a new design, new features -- including noise cancellation technology -- and a higher price tag. The premium version will cost $249. AirPods currently start at $159. The company was widely expected to host its annual October event and unveil the new AirPods alongside other hardware products such as the iPad and MacBook Pro. Instead, it announced the product in a press release on Monday. In the release, the company referred to AirPods as \"the best-selling headphones in the world\" and said the new model will hit stores on Wednesday. The AirPods Pro comes with advanced noise cancellation technology, flexible ear tips to better fit in the user's ears and a transparency mode, which lets customers listen to music while still hearing the surrounding environment, Apple said. Other new features include audio sharing, which allows users to sync up with a second pair of AirPods to listen to the same song or watch the same movie with a friend, as well as the ability for Siri to speak incoming messages. The decision to introduce a Pro version of AirPods is in line with Apple's strategy to roll out a premium version of its most popular products, as it's done with Macs, iPhones and iPads. The company has declined to share how many AirPods it's sold to date, although CEO Tim Cook previously called the demand \"phenomenal.\"", "zh": "2016年苹果首次推出AirPod时，有人嘲笑这款无线耳塞像挂在耳朵上的电动牙刷。现在这款耳机成了苹果最受欢迎的产品之一，公司也在这款产品上更加下功夫。 周一苹果推出了热销的AirPod的高端新品。这款新耳机设计新颖，功能创新，采用了噪音消除技术，价格也更高。 高级版售价249美元，目前AirPod的最低售价为159美元。 公众期待苹果在10月份一年一度的发布会上和iPad和MacBook Pro等其他硬件产品一起推出这款新的AirPod，但该公司在周一的新闻稿中公布了这一新产品。 苹果在新闻稿中说AirPod是“世界最畅销耳机”，还说新型号将于周三上市。 苹果公司说AirPods Pro采用了高级的降噪技术，有弹性的入耳部位更贴合用户的耳朵，还有透明模式，让消费者听音乐时也能听见周围的声音。 新增功能还有音频共享，用户可以和其他AirPod同步听歌或和朋友同步看电影，Siri还可以进行消息通知。 推出AirPod的Pro版本是苹果最受欢迎产品推出高级版本的战略的一部分，Mac、iPhone和 iPad也都有高级版本。 尽管首席执行官蒂姆·库克此前曾说这款耳机的需求量“惊人”，但苹果拒绝透露目前AirPod的销量。"}, {"title": "新的基因编辑技术诞生", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201911/598372.shtml", "en": "Scientists in the US have developed a powerful new genome editing system that could offer significantly more precision and efficiency than the current CRISPR standard. While CRISPR-Cas9 is a revolutionary medical technology that lay the modern foundations for editing genetic code – including variants associated with disease – there have long been concerns over its potential for imprecision. Specifically, many fear that CRISPR-Cas9 editing carries the potential to introduce errors in the form of uncontrolled insertions and deletions in genetic code, called indels. Researchers say the new system, dubbed 'prime editing' by its inventors at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard University, could change the game thanks to a new protein that enables high-precision edits of genetic targets. \"A major aspiration in the molecular life sciences is the ability to precisely make any change to the genome in any location,\" says genome biologist David Liu from the the Broad Institute. \"We're not aware of another editing technology in mammalian cells that offers this level of versatility and precision with so few byproducts.\" The basis of the new prime editing method is an enzyme called reverse transcriptase. The CRISPR system also uses an enzyme – Cas9 – to cut DNA strands, so that alternative genetic code can be inserted. Now, thanks to reverse transcriptase, which is used in conjunction with Cas9 in prime editing, genomic editing has been upgraded again. In prime editing, a guide RNA called pegRNA guides a modified form of the Cas9 enzyme to snip only a single strand of DNA (preventing the double-strand breaks that can induce unintended disruptions). After this, the reverse transcriptase enzyme directly copies edited genetic information contained in the pegRNA to the targeted genomic site.", "zh": "美国科学家已研发出强大的新的基因组编辑系统，显著提高目前CRISPR标准的精度和效率。 虽然CRISPR-Cas9是革命性的医疗技术，为编辑包括与疾病相关的变异在内的遗传密码奠定了现代基础，但一直存在对其潜在的不精确性的担忧。 具体来说就是很多人害怕CRISPR-Cas9编辑有可能在被称为索引的遗传密码中不受控制的插入和删除信息从而导致错误。 研究人员说被麻省理工学院和哈佛大学的布罗德研究所的发明者称为“先导编辑”的这一新系统能改变基因，有一种新型蛋白质使研究人员可以对目标基因进行高精度编辑。 布罗德研究所的基因组生物学家David Liu说：“分子生命科学的一个主要目标是能精确改变任何位置的基因组。” “我们不知道有其他对哺乳动物细胞进行编辑的技术能像这一技术一样用途广泛、精度高，而且副作用这么少。” 这一新的先导编辑方法的基础是被称为逆转录酶的酶，CRISPR系统也利用这种Cas9酶切割DNA链，插入替代遗传密码。 现在多亏有了逆转录酶，基因组编辑再次升级了。逆转录酶与Cas9一起被用于先导编辑。 先导编辑中名为pegRNA的引导RNA指引修改过的Cas9酶只剪断一条DNA链（避免双链断裂导致意外中断）。 然后逆转录酶直接将pegRNA中编辑过的基因信息复制到基因组的目标位置。"}, {"title": "特斯拉辟谣:没有推出悬浮滑板", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201910/598297.shtml", "en": "This 'Tesla hoverboard' is what dreams are made of—but it's just that. If you see people on the internet freaking out over a Tesla hoverboard today, we hate to break it to you, but it's fake. A video of Tesla's alleged newest product was posted to YouTube, and it seems to have generated quite the buzz on social media. Alas, the hoverboard in the video is completely computer-generated. But then again, maybe Elon Musk will see it and decide to try to give making one a go. It's no crazier than his flamethrowers, after all. Last February, Elon Musk sold $10 million worth of flamethrowers in four days. Musk announced that all 20,000 of the Boring Company-branded flamethrowers have sold out. Given that they were $500 each, that means Musk moved $10 million worth in the four days since they went on sale. Musk also announced that every flamethrower will ship with a \"complimentary Boring fire extinguisher\". Still, not everyone is happy about the flamethrower success. Though flamethrowers are legal in America if their flames don't extend more than 10 feet, a Californian politician has said he will seek a ban on the Boring Company selling the flamethrowers in his state.", "zh": "这款“特斯拉单轮电动滑板车”是所有人的梦想，但也仅此而已。 如果你现在看见网上有人站在特斯拉单轮电动滑板车上吓坏了，我们不忍心告诉你，但其实都是假的。 一段所谓特斯拉最新产品的视频被发布到了YouTube上，好像在社交媒体上引起了轩然大波。 唉，视频中的单轮电动滑板车完全是电脑合成的。 但还需要说明一下，可能埃隆·马斯克会看到这个视频，并决定试一试。 毕竟这个还没有他的火焰喷射器疯狂。 去年二月份埃隆·马斯克四天内卖出了价值1000万美元的火焰喷射器。 马斯克宣布Boring Company生产的共20,000个火焰喷射器已售罄。 假设每个售价500美元，这就意味着这些产品上市后的4天内马斯克就卖出了1000万美元。 马斯克还说每个火焰喷射器都附赠“免费的Boring灭火器”。 但不是所有人对于火焰喷射器取得的成功都感到高兴。虽然在美国火焰不超过10英尺的火焰喷射器是合法的，但一位加州政客说他将在本州范围内禁止Boring Company销售火焰喷射器。"}, {"title": "基因检测结果呈阴性可能是\"虚假的安慰\"", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201910/597973.shtml", "en": "Consumer genetic tests could be giving false reassurance to those at heightened risk of cancers, according to findings presented at an international conference last week. The study, by clinical genetic testing company Invitae, revealed that tests for breast and bowel cancer risk by direct-to-consumer companies such as 23andMe give negative results to the vast majority of those carrying DNA mutations in the genes under investigation. \"These tests should not be taken at face value at all, whether they are positive or negative,\" said Edward Esplin from Invitae ahead of the annual meeting of the American Society of Human Genetics in Houston, Texas. \"The data really underscores that there needs to be increased awareness that results from this type of screening may not be wrong but they're woefully incomplete.\" The research also showed that those from Asian and African-American backgrounds were more likely to carry mutations that were not designed to be detected by the consumer tests. The research focused on DNA-based tests relating to breast, ovarian and bowel cancer that were recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The tests operate by a subject sending a DNA swab in the post for analysis and then receiving results with information about how their genetics could influence their health. In the case of breast and ovarian cancer, the FDA has approved a screening test for three specific mutations on the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, which are most common in people of Ashkenazi Jewish heritage. However, these mutations are rare in people from other backgrounds. Similarly, for bowel cancer, 23andMe offers FDA-authorised tests for two mutations, which are most common among individuals of northern European ancestry. The company explains the limitations of these tests to consumers and on its website. Esplin said that despite this, consumers could be wrongly reassured by a negative result. The study analysed the DNA of 270,806 patients who had been referred by healthcare providers for testing of the MUTYH gene, and 119,328 who had been referred for BRCA1/2 genetic testing. It showed that for both tests, the majority of those carrying mutations would not be spotted, which Invitae describes as a \"clinical false-negative result\". For MUYTH, 40% of individuals with mutations in both copies of their MUTYH genes – consistent with an almost 100% lifetime risk of bowel cancer – had different mutations to those screened for in the FDA-approved test. This figure rose to 100% for those from Asian backgrounds and 75% for African-Americans. For BRCA genes, 94% of non-Ashkenazi Jewish individuals and 19% of those of Ashkenazi heritage had a mutation that would be missed. Again, the figures were highest for those of Asian (98%) and African-American (99%) ancestry. \"A clinical false-negative result can be incorrectly reassuring, excluding a patient from receiving the preventive care they need based on their risk,\" he added. \"It could be the difference between preventing cancer and developing cancer.\" In response to the findings, 23andMe said in a statement: \"The claims made by a competitor that we are returning 'clinical false negatives' is incorrect and a false characterisation of 23andMe's test. Our test is extremely accurate. As part of the FDA authorisation process we've demonstrated over 99% accuracy for the variants we test for in our health product.\" The company said it makes clear to customers that it tests only for certain genetic variants and that customers should not forgo any recommended testing based on 23andMe results. \"23andMe is not a diagnostic test,\" the company said. \"If an individual has a family history of cancer or other indications for clinical testing we always recommend consulting a healthcare provider first.\" Prof Anneke Lucassen, a clinical geneticist at the University of Southampton, said that, in her experience, non-specialists would be likely to wrongly interpret negative results as an \"all-clear\". \"I do think the 'false-negative' rate is an issue, not necessarily through the companies' fault but through low general awareness,\" she said. \"Most people who come to clinic ask: 'Have I got the gene for breast cancer?' and imagine it's a single test, not that the test involves looking through around 20,000 letters of the genetic code to see if any one of them might be different.\"", "zh": "上周一次国际会议上公布的研究结果显示，消费者基因测试可能会给那些癌症风险更高的人带来虚假的安慰。 这项由临床基因检测公司Invitae开展的研究显示，23andMe等直接面向消费者的公司对乳腺癌和肠癌风险的检测显示，绝大多数携带受测基因DNA突变的人检测结果都是阴性的。 在美国人类遗传学学会于德克萨斯州休斯顿召开年度会议之前，来自Invitae的爱德华·埃斯普林说：“这些检测不应该只看表面价值，无论检测结果是阳性还是阴性。” “研究数据强调的是，人们需要认识到，这种检测的结果可能不会是错误的，但遗憾的是，它们是不完整的。” 这项研究还表明，有亚裔和非洲裔血统的美国人更有可能携带突变基因，而消费者测试无法检测到这些突变基因。 这项研究的重点是美国食品和药物管理局（FDA）最近批准的与乳腺癌、卵巢癌和肠癌相关的DNA检测。 测试是这样进行的：受试者寄送DNA样本用于分析，然后收到有关基因对健康影响的检测结果。 就乳腺癌和卵巢癌而言，FDA已经批准了一项针对BRCA1和BRCA2基因三种特定突变的筛查测试，这两种突变在德系犹太人中最为常见。然而，这些突变在其他血统的人身上很少见。 类似地，对于肠癌，23andMe公司提供FDA授权的两种基因突变检测，这在北欧血统的人中最为常见。该公司在其网站上向消费者解释了这些测试的局限性。 埃斯普林表示，尽管如此，消费者仍可能被阴性结果错误地打消疑虑。 这项研究分析了270806名被医疗机构推荐进行MUTYH基因检测患者的DNA，以及119328名被推荐进行BRCA1/2基因检测患者的DNA。 结果显示，在这两种检测中，大多数携带突变的人都没有被发现，Invitae将其描述为“临床假阴性结果”。 对于MUYTH基因，在携带有两种MUTYH基因拷贝突变的人中，有40%的人的突变与FDA授权检测到的突变不同。这个数字在亚裔美国人中上升到100%，在非洲裔美国人中上升到75%。携带有这两种基因突变的人一生中罹患肠癌的风险几乎是100%。 对于BRCA基因，94%的非德系犹太人和19%的德系犹太人携带有可能被遗漏的基因突变。同样，亚裔（98%）和非裔（99%）的比例最高。 他补充说：“临床假阴性的结果可能是误导性的安慰，使人们不再接受需要基于风险而进行的预防性治疗。人们可能会患上原本可以预防的癌症。” 针对这些发现，23andMe在一份声明中表示：“竞争对手声称我们正将‘临床假阴性结果’退回是假消息，其对本公司测试的特征描述也是错误的。我们的测试非常准确。作为FDA授权检测过程的一部分，我们已经证明，我们的健康产品基因变异测试准确性超过99%。” 该公司表示，已向客户明确表示，只检测某些基因变异，客户不应放弃任何基于23andMe结果的推荐检测。该公司表示：“这不是诊断测试。如果一个人有癌症家族史或其他临床检测的适应症，我们一直建议首先咨询医疗机构。” 南安普顿大学临床遗传学家安妮克·卢卡森教授表示，根据她的经验，非专业人士很可能会错误地将阴性结果解读为“没有风险”。 她说：“我确实认为假阴性率是个问题，这不一定是由于公司的失误，而是由于人们的普遍意识不强。大多数来诊所的人会问：‘我有乳腺癌的基因吗？’想象一下，这是一个单一的测试，而不是通过检查大约两万个基因序列编码来判断哪些有所不同。”"}, {"title": "三星指纹传感曝出重大漏洞", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201910/597902.shtml", "en": "Three days after Samsung confirmed an issue with the innovative in-display fingerprint reader on its S10 and a Note 10 smartphones, the company has issued an even more serious warning for millions of users. The issue relates to the use of gel covers which seem to enable any fingerprint to unlock the devices. The issue is so serious, that Samsung has told owners who use any front screen covers to \"refrain from using the cover until your device has been updated with a new software patch\". The new warning from Samsung goes even further though, telling users who have deployed covers to replace the fingerprints stored on their devices. Samsung had already said it was \"aware of the case of the malfunctioning fingerprint recognition and will soon issue a software patch\". And there's an update here also: Samsung has promised that software update will be available during the week of October 21. \"Once updated,\" the company says, \"scan your fingerprint in its entirety, so that all portions of your fingerprint, including the center and corners have been fully scanned.\" Basically, users are advised to replace all the biometric data on the device. The new Qualcomm in-display technology in the S10 and Note10 has always been a challenge for screen protectors. A small gap between the protector and the screen resulted in recognition challenges. But one fix at least seems to capture a successful fingerprint match from the original user within the gel cover—essentially applying that correct fingerprint when pressure is applied. This means any person can unlock the device and access its data and any other apps opened by the biometric security.", "zh": "三星证实S10和Note 10智能手机上创新的屏下指纹阅读器存在问题，三天后该公司向数百万用户发出了更严肃的警告。 问题是使用凝胶膜以后，好像任何指纹都能解锁手机。 这个问题太过严重，三星公司已经通知前屏幕贴膜的用户“手机更新了新的软件补丁之才能贴膜”。 三星还发出了进一步的警告，告诉用户揭掉屏幕膜之后要换掉手机里储存的指纹。 三星公司称“已知道指纹识别故障问题，会尽快发布软件补丁”。 最新消息：三星已承诺10月21日这一周可以进行软件更新。 该公司说：“软件更新后要完整扫描指纹，包括指纹中心和边缘在内的整个指纹都要扫描”。 主要是建议用户替换掉手机内所有生物特征数据。 S10和Note 10手机应用的高通公司的这个新屏下技术对屏幕保护器来说一直是一个挑战。屏幕保护器和屏幕之间的小间隙会导致识别错误。 但至少有一种修复方法可以在凝胶膜中成功捕获原始用户的指纹，按压屏幕时主要匹配的就是这个正确的指纹。 这意味着任何人都能解锁手机获取数据，并利用生物识别安全系统打开的其他任何应用程序。"}, {"title": "NASA工程师提出的引擎概念能达到光速的99%", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201910/597617.shtml", "en": "When it comes to space, there's a problem with our human drive to go all the places and see all the things. A big problem. It's, well, space. It's way too big. Even travelling at the maximum speed the Universe allows, it would take us years to reach our nearest neighbouring star. But another human drive is finding solutions to big problems. And that's what NASA engineer David Burns has been doing in his spare time. He's produced an engine concept that, he says, could theoretically accelerate to 99 percent of the speed of light - all without using propellant. He's posted it to the NASA Technical Reports Server under the heading \"Helical Engine\", and, on paper, it works by exploiting the way mass can change at relativistic speeds - those close to the speed of light in a vacuum. It has not yet been reviewed by an expert. Understandably this paper has caused buzz approaching levels seen in the early days of the EM Drive. And yes, even some headlines claiming the engine could 'violate the laws of physics'. But while this concept is fascinating, it's definitely not going to break physics anytime soon. As a thought experiment to explain his concept, Burns describes a box with a weight inside, threaded on a line, with a spring at each end bouncing the weight back and forth. In a vacuum - such as space - the effect of this would be to wiggle the entire box, with the weight seeming to stand still, like a gif stabilised around the weight. Overall, the box would stay wiggling in the same spot - but if the mass of the weight were to increase in only one direction, it would generate a greater push in that direction, and therefore thrust.", "zh": "一提到太空，人类想去所有地方看所有事物的欲望就会遇到一个问题，而且是个大问题，那就是“太空”。 太空太大了，即使以宇宙允许的最快速度行驶，我们也要花几年时间才能到达离我们最近的恒星。 但人类的另一个欲望是找到解决大问题的办法，NASA工程师David Burns就一直利用业余时间研究这个。 他提出了一个引擎概念，他说理论上可以加速到光速的99%，而且完全不用推进剂。 他将其发表在NASA技术报告服务器上，标题是“螺旋引擎”。理论上来说它的工作原理是利用相对论性速度（即与真空中光速接近的速度）下质量变化的方式。至今还没有专家对此做出评论。 可以理解的是这个论文已经引发关注，其热度可以媲美无燃料引擎早期的关注度。甚至有些新闻声称该引擎可能“违反物理定律”。 虽然这个概念很吸引人，但短期内绝对不会打破物理规律。 Burns利用一个思维实验解释他的概念，他描述说一个盒子里面有一个重物，穿在一条线上，两端用弹簧来回弹起重物。 在真空状态，比如太空中，这样做的结果是整个盒子都会动，重物似乎静止不动，就像放置在重物周围的动图。 总的来说，这个盒子会在同一个地方摆动，但如果重物质量只向一个方向增加，那个方向推动力更大，因而产生推力。"}, {"title": "睡眠少身体棒的体质由基因决定", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201910/597616.shtml", "en": "A genetic mutation that allows people to feel fully rested with fewer than six hours sleep a night has been identified by studying a family who get by on less than average. It is the second such finding in recent months. Ying-Hui Fu at the University of California, San Francisco, and her colleagues have been seeking out and studying families in which some people seem to need less sleep than normal. They have been looking for the gene variants that might be responsible, and genetically engineering these variants into mice to confirm their effect. Her team has found several mutations make people need less sleep. In August, Fu's team reported that a mutation in a gene called ADRB1 allows 12 members of a family to sleep as little as 4.5 hours per night without feeling tired. This gene codes for a receptor protein common in a brain region called the dorsal pons, known to regulate sleep. Now the team has found a mutation in a gene called NPSR1 in another family in which some people report feeling fully rested after much less sleep than average. Of the two members of this family whose sleep habits they studied, one averaged 5.5 hours a night and the other just 4.3 hours. NPSR1 codes for a protein receptor in the brain known to be involved in arousal and sleep behaviour. When the team engineered the mutation into mice, they slept less without any obvious effect on health or memory. Another variation in NPSR1 has previously been linked to people requiring 20 minutes less sleep than average, based on studies of tens of thousands of people. On average, people need 8 hours sleep a night. In most people, sleeping less than 6 hours a night results in a marked decline in cognitive abilities within days. Over long periods, sleep deprivation can contribute to many disorders, including obesity, heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes and depression. As far as Fu's team has been able to tell, however, people who sleep less because they have one of these gene variants are healthy and don't appear to suffer any ill effects. However, to be absolutely sure would require long-term studies involving large numbers of people, which isn't feasible. \"Right now, we cannot say for sure,\" says Fu. In theory, if these gene variants provided a big advantage, evolution should have made them common – yet they appear to be rare. It might be, say, that sleeping less only became an advantage after the development of lights. But other advantageous gene variants that appeared only recently in human history, such as those allowing adults to digest milk, became widespread very rapidly. It might be possible to develop drugs that mimic the effects of these mutations. However, as NPSR1 is also involved in processes such as stress, anxiety and fear, there is a risk of nasty side effects. Expect more reports soon. Fu say her team has already discovered more sleep-shortening mutations.", "zh": "科学家通过对一个家庭的研究，发现了一种可以使人在每晚睡眠不足6小时的情况下得到充分休息的基因突变。这个家庭的成员每日睡眠时长低于平均水平。这是近几个月来第二个针对这一问题的同类发现。 加州大学旧金山分校的傅嫈惠和她的同事们一直在寻找和研究那些所需睡眠少于平均水平的家庭。他们一直在寻找可能起作用的基因变异，并通过基因技术将这些变异的基因植入老鼠体内以证实其作用。 她的团队已经发现了几种基因突变会使人们需要更少的睡眠。今年8月，傅嫈惠的研究小组报告称，ADRB1基因突变使一个家庭的12名成员每晚只睡4.5小时而不会感到疲劳。这种基因为一种受体蛋白编码，这种蛋白在大脑中的脑桥背侧区域很常见，这一区域负责调节睡眠。 现在，研究小组在另一个家庭中发现了NPSR1基因突变，一些家庭成员报告说，他们在睡眠时间远远少于平均水平的情况下，仍然感到精力充沛。他们研究了其中两名家庭成员的睡眠习惯，一人平均每晚睡5.5小时，另一人仅睡4.3小时。 NPSR1基因为大脑中一种参与觉醒和睡眠行为的蛋白质受体编码。当研究小组把这种突变基因植入老鼠体内时，它们的睡眠时间减少了，但对健康和记忆力没有明显影响。 此前针对上万人的研究发现，NPSR1基因的另一种变异与所需睡眠时间比平均少20分钟的人有关。 平均而言，人们每晚需要8小时的睡眠。对大多数人来说，每晚睡眠不足6小时会导致认知能力在几天内显著下降。长时间缺乏睡眠会导致许多疾病，包括肥胖、心脏病、高血压、糖尿病和抑郁症。 然而，就傅嫈惠的研究小组所知，那些因为拥有这些基因变异而睡眠较少的人是健康的，而且似乎没有任何不良影响。但要想完全确定，就需要进行涉及大量人群的长期研究，这是不可行的。 傅嫈惠说：“现在，我们还不太肯定。” 从理论上讲，如果这些基因变异提供了一个巨大的优势，进化应该会使它们变得普遍，但目前看来还很罕见。这可能是因为，少睡觉只是在灯光发明之后才成为一种优势。但是其他有利的基因变异，比如那些允许成年人消化牛奶的基因变异，在人类历史上只是最近才出现的，却迅速传播开来。 研究人员能够开发模仿这些基因突变的药物，但由于NPSR1基因也与压力、焦虑和恐惧等情绪有关，因此有可能导致严重的副作用。 我们期待不久之后能有更多的报道。傅嫈惠说，她的团队已经发现了更多与睡眠时间短有关的基因突变。"}, {"title": "波音和保时捷要联手开发飞行电动汽车", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201910/597349.shtml", "en": "Boeing and Porsche, meet George Jetson. The US aircraft giant and German sports car maker announced Thursday they are teaming up to \"explore the premium urban air mobility market and the extension of urban traffic into airspace,\" through \"a fully electric vertical takeoff and landing vehicle.\" Translation: They want to develop an electric vehicle that can fly. The announcement did not include any details about the amount of money or other resources the two companies plan to invest in the effort, or a target date or price range. Porsche's parent company, Volkswagen AG, (VLKAF) is the world's largest automaker. It has announced a major push into the development of electric vehicles, setting a target of building 22 million electric cars across its brands over the next 10 years. \"We are combining the strengths of two leading global companies to address a potential key market segment of the future,\" says Detlev von Platen, a member of the Porsche board in charge of sales and marketing. \"In the longer term, this could mean moving into the third dimension of travel.\" Boeing's revenue topped $100 billion for the first time in 2018, although its sales will be sharply lower this year due to the grounding of its best selling commercial jet, the 737 Max, following two fatal accidents that killed 346 people. It has already shown a prototype of a self-driving electric powered flying car earlier this year. \"Porsche and Boeing (BA) together bring precision engineering, style and innovation to accelerate urban air mobility worldwide,\" said Steve Nordlund, general manager of Boeing NeXt, a unit of the company working on next generation vehicles and aircraft.", "zh": "波音和保时捷要做飞行汽车了。 这家美国飞机巨头和德国跑车制造商周四宣布要利用“全电动垂直起降工具”共同“开拓高端城市空中交通市场，将城市交通延伸至空域”。 简单点说就是，他们想要研发会飞的电动汽车。 宣告中未详细说明两家公司计划在此项目上投入多少钱和其他资源、预定日期或价格区间。 保时捷的母公司大众汽车集团是世界最大汽车制造商，宣布要大力推动电动汽车的研发，目标是未来十年所有旗下品牌共生产2200万辆电动车。 保时捷负责销售和市场营销的董事会成员Detlev von Platen说：“我们要将两家全球领先公司联合起来，占据潜在的未来市场的关键部分。从长期来看，这可能意味着要进入出行的第三维度。” 2018年波音营收首次突破1000亿美元，但由于两次重大事故导致346人丧生，其畅销的商用飞机737 Max停飞，所以今年销售额骤减。今年早些时候该公司展示了自动驾驶电动飞行汽车的原型。 波音公司研究新一代汽车和飞机的Boeing NeXt部门的总经理Steve Nordlund说：“保时捷和波音一起带来精密工程、时尚和创新，从而加速全球城市空中交通。”"}, {"title": "3D打印机造出太空人造肉", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201910/596906.shtml", "en": "The prospect of astronauts tucking into a roast dinner has grown slightly closer after a successful experiment used a 3D printer to create meat on the International Space Station. The bioprinter produced beef, rabbit and fish tissue using magnetic fields in microgravity, a Russian medical technology company involved in the experiment said Wednesday. The experiment -- an international collaboration involving US, Russian and Israeli companies -- was carried out in September by cosmonaut Oleg Skripochka in the station's Russian segment using a 3D printer developed in Moscow. The creators say it is the first to create a small amount of artificial meat in conditions of weightlessness. \"It's one small nibble for man, one giant bite for mankind,\" said Yusef Khesuani of 3D Bioprinting Solutions, the Russian laboratory that created the bioprinter. The laboratory was founded by Invitro, a large Russian private medicine company. The Roscosmos space agency part-financed the experiment as of national importance. \"It was really a breakthrough both for Roscosmos and Russia as a whole,\" said Nikolai Burdeiny, executive director of the state space corporation, which includes Roscosmos. \"For us it was the first experience of international scientific collaboration in space,\" Khesuani said, using cells provided by Israeli and US food-tech companies. \"Thank God the experiment went successfully ... All the cells showed a good result in space,\" he added. Astronauts eat meat on board that is vacuum-packed or dried on Earth but this technology could ultimately be necessary for long voyages into deep space, said veteran cosmonaut Oleg Kononenko. \"If we're going to fly further from Earth to other planets in the solar system, we can't take that volume of food with us,\" he told AFP. \"In any case we will have to grow and produce food onboard the spaceship.\" \"I think progress is developing very quickly, science and knowledge, and I think this will be within our lifetimes,\" he said. Creating larger amounts of meat in the Russian segment will need more complex equipment than the current printer, said Khesuani. \"Then we can create not just small objects but big ones, made of a large mass of cells.\" \"I hope we will continue these experiments.\"", "zh": "一项使用3D打印机在国际空间站制作肉类的实验成功后，宇航员大吃烤肉的梦想距离实现更近了一步。 10月9日，参与实验的一家俄罗斯医疗技术公司表示，这款生物打印机利用微重力环境下的磁场制造出了牛肉、兔子肉和鱼肉组织。 今年9月，宇航员奥列格·斯克里波奇卡在国际空间站俄罗斯舱段使用莫斯科研发的3D打印机开展了这一实验。该实验由美国、俄罗斯和以色列公司合作完成。 研究人员说，这是首次在失重条件下制造出少量人造肉。 俄罗斯3D生物打印解决方案实验室的尤塞夫·赫苏亚尼说：“这是个人的一小口，人类的一大口。”该实验室正式完成这一试验的生物打印机制造商。 该实验室是由俄罗斯大型私营医药公司Invitro成立的。 俄罗斯联邦航天局也为这项具有国家级重要性的试验资助了部分资金。 俄罗斯联邦航天局所属的俄罗斯国家航天公司的执行董事尼古拉·布尔杰伊尼说：“这对俄罗斯联邦航天局和整个俄罗斯来说都是巨大的突破。” 赫苏亚尼说：“对我们来说，这是首次在太空开展国际科学合作。”实验用的是以色列和美国食品科技公司提供的细胞。 他还说：“谢天谢地，试验成功了……所有细胞在太空的试验结果都很好。” 资深宇航员奥列格·科诺年科说，宇航员在太空通常吃的是地球上真空包装或脱水的肉类，但这一技术最终可能成为去外层空间远航所必需的技术。 他告诉法新社说：“如果我们要从地球飞到太阳系中的其他行星，我们不能带那么多食物。” “无论如何，我们都必须在飞船上种植和生产食物。” 他说：“我认为科学和知识进展飞快，在有生之年我们能实现这些目标。” 赫苏亚尼说，在国际空间站俄罗斯舱段生产更多肉类需要的设备比这台打印机更复杂。 “随后我们不仅可以制造小块的肉，甚至可以制造出由大量细胞构成的大块肉。” “我希望这些试验可以继续进行下去。”"}, {"title": "全世界最黑的材料被研发出来了", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201910/596457.shtml", "en": "You might think you already know black – even super-black Vantablack, previously the blackest material known to science – but researchers just came up with a material that takes black to a new level of blackness. The new, as-yet-unnamed ultra-black material is made from vertically aligned carbon nanotubes (CNTs), microscopic carbon strings that are a little like a fuzzy forest of tiny trees, according to the team behind the project. And here's the rub – this CNT material can absorb more than 99.995 percent of incoming light, beating the 99.96 percent that Vantablack is able to absorb. \"In other words, it reflected 10 times less light than all other superblack materials, including Vantablack,\" explains an MIT release. Like some of the best scientific discoveries, this record-setting black stuff was discovered by accident. The researchers were looking at ways to grow CNTs on electrically conductive materials like aluminium, and it was during these experiments that they noticed the blackness of the materials they were growing on specially treated aluminium foil. \"I remember noticing how black it was before growing carbon nanotubes on it, and then after growth, it looked even darker,\" says mechanical engineer Kehang Cui, from Shanghai Jiao Tong University in China. \"So I thought I should measure the optical reflectance of the sample.\" That's when the ultra-powerful light absorption properties were recorded – from every possible angle, the material soaked up virtually all the light directed at it. What's not clear is why the material is like this. It might be the way that the etched aluminium, on which the oxide layer is removed, combines with the carbon nanotubes in some way, but more research is going to be needed to know for sure.", "zh": "你可能认为你已经知道黑色，甚至是曾经科学已知的最黑的材料——特黑的Vantablack，但研究人员刚提出了一种材料，它把黑度提高到了一个新的层次。 该项目团队表示，这种尚未命名的新型超黑材料是由垂直排列的碳纳米管（CNTs）制成的，它是一种微型碳链，有点像长满小树的毛茸茸的森林。 但是，这种碳纳米管材料可以吸收99.995%以上的入射光线，超过了能能吸收99.96%入射光线的Vantablack材料。 “换句话说，它反射的光比其他所有超黑材料（包括Vantablack材料）少10倍，”麻省理工学院在一份新闻稿中解释道。 就像部分最佳科学发现一样，这种创纪录的黑色物质也是偶然发现的。 研究人员在寻找在导电材料（例如铝）上植入碳纳米管的方法，正是在这项实验中，他们注意到他们在特殊处理的铝箔上植入的这种材料的黑度。 来自中国上海交通大学的机械工程师崔克航表示：“我记得我注意过在植入碳纳米管之前它的黑度，而在植入之后，它看起来更黑了，所以我认为我应该测一下样品的光反射率。” 这种超强光吸收特性就是在这时被记录下来的——从每一个可能的角度来看，这种材料几乎都吸收了所有射向它的光。 这种材料为什么会是这个样子目前还不清楚。这可能是去掉氧化层的蚀刻铝与碳纳米管在某种程度上结合的方式，但这还需要进行更多的研究来证实。"}, {"title": "瑞典搞出了面试机器人腾艾", "link": "http://www.kekenet.com/read/201910/596357.shtml", "en": "A robot has hired a human being for the first time in history as an AI was left to do job interviews. Robotic head Tengai has been commissioned to carry out recruitment in the Upplands Bro Municipality, Sweden. Tengai resembles a head on a stick, with a friendly looking face beamed onto a screen which wraps around his plastic skull. The robot was developed by recruitment company TNG together with the tech firm Furhat Robotics. He is reported to have hired a man called Anders Ornhed, from Jarfalla. Anders has the honour of becoming the first person ever to hired by an AI. Swedish radio reported Anders got through the interview process with Tengai. He was given the job as digital coordinator at the municipality office. Tengai is boasted to be \"bias free\". The robot is not affected by the jobseeker's age, gender of ethnicity – he just wants the best person for the job. Anders said: \"It's very different from being interviewed by a human being. \"For example, you do not get any confirmation whether you have answered enough.\" Tengai was designed to \"challenge old stereotypes\" and help to eliminate humanities \"subconscious prejudices\". TNG bosses claim the robot will create \"business value, increased competitiveness and diversity in the workplace\". Previously, CEO Asa Edman Kallstromer said: \"We humans often try to find people who have the same interests and are like ourselves. \"This is often done through private questions that get us emotionally involved. \"The robot never asks such questions and never gets emotional.\" Furhat Robotics advert features a woman with a hijab being turned down by three recruitment managers before being given a job by Tengai.", "zh": "人工智能被应用于工作面试，有史以来第一次，一个机器人聘用了一名人类。 首席机器人腾艾被委托在瑞典乌普兰斯布罗市进行招聘。 腾艾就像一颗长在木棒上的头，他的塑料脑袋上有一块屏幕，屏幕上展现着一张友好的脸。 这款机器人是由招聘公司TNG和科技公司Furhat 机器人公司共同研发的。 据报道，他从耶尔费拉聘请了一位名叫安德斯·奥恩赫德的男子。 安德斯有幸成为史上第一位被人工智能聘用的人。 据瑞典之声报道，安德斯顺利通过了腾艾的面试。 他被任命为市政办公室的数字协调员。 人们称赞腾艾“没有偏见”。 机器人不受求职者年龄、性别或种族的影响，他只想找到最适合这份工作的人选。 安德斯表示：“这与接受人类的面试十分不同。 “例如，关于你是否充分回答了问题，你并不会得到任何确认。” 设计腾艾的目的在于“挑战陈规旧制”，以消除人类“潜意识中的偏见”。 TNG经理表示，机器人将“在职场上”创造“商业价值、提高竞争力并增加多样性”。 阿萨·艾德曼·科尔斯托默总裁曾表示：“我们人类往往尝试去找与自己有着相同爱好，并与自己相像的人。 “这往往会通过那些让我们投入感情的私人问题来实现。” “而机器人从不会问这样的问题，也不会变得情绪化。” 在Furhat机器人的广告中，一名带着头巾的女士被三位招聘经理拒绝了，但之后她被腾艾录用了。"}]